# Asynchronous Tests
Go does concurrency well. Ginkgo provides support for testing asynchronicity effectively.

Consider this example:
````
It("should post to the channel, eventually", func() {
    c := make(chan string, 0)

    go DoSomething(c)
    Expect(<-c).To(ContainSubstring("Done!"))
})
````
This test will block until a response is received over the channel c. A deadlock or timeout is a common failure mode for tests like this, a common pattern in such situations is to add a select statement at the bottom of the function and include a <-time.After(X) channel to specify a timeout.

Ginkgo has this pattern built in. The body functions in all non-container blocks (Its, BeforeEaches, AfterEaches, JustBeforeEaches, and Benchmarks) can take an optional done Done argument:

````
It("should post to the channel, eventually", func(done Done) {
    c := make(chan string, 0)

    go DoSomething(c)
    Expect(<-c).To(ContainSubstring("Done!"))
    close(done)
}, 0.2)
````
Done is a chan interface{}. When Ginkgo detects that the done Done argument has been requested it runs the body function as a goroutine, wrapping it with the necessary logic to apply a timeout assertion. You must either close the done channel, or send something (anything) to it to tell Ginkgo that your test has ended. If your test doesn’t end after a timeout period, Ginkgo will fail the test and move on the next one.

The default timeout is 1 second. You can modify this timeout by passing a float64 (in seconds) after the body function. In this example we set hte timeout to 0.2 seconds.

Gomega has additional support for making rich assertions on asynchronous code. Make sure to check out how Eventually works in Gomega.