# Adding Specs to a Suite

An empty test suite is not very interesting. While you can start to add tests directly into books_suite_test.go you’ll probably prefer to separate your tests into separate files (especially for packages with multiple files). Let’s add a test file for our book.go model:
````
$ ginkgo generate book
````
This will generate a file named book_test.go containing:

package books_test

````
import (
    . "/path/to/books"
    . "github.com/onsi/ginkgo"
    . "github.com/onsi/gomega"
)

var _ = Describe("Book", func() {

})
````
Let’s break this down:

We import the ginkgo and gomega packages into the top-level namespace. While incredibly convenient, this is not - strictly speaking - necessary. If youd like to avoid this check out the Avoiding Dot Imports section below.
Similarly, we import the books package since we are using the special books_test package to isolate our tests from our code. For convenience we import the books package into the namespace. You can opt out of either these decisions by editing the generated test file.
We add a top-level describe container using Ginkgo’s Describe(text string, body func()) bool function. The var _ = ... trick allows us to evaluate the Describe at the top level without having to wrap it in a func init() {}
The function in the Describe will contain our specs. Let’s add a few now to test loading books from JSON:

````
var _ = Describe("Book", func() {
    var (
        longBook  Book
        shortBook Book
    )

    BeforeEach(func() {
        longBook = Book{
            Title:  "Les Miserables",
            Author: "Victor Hugo",
            Pages:  1488,
        }

        shortBook = Book{
            Title:  "Fox In Socks",
            Author: "Dr. Seuss",
            Pages:  24,
        }
    })

    Describe("Categorizing book length", func() {
        Context("With more than 300 pages", func() {
            It("should be a novel", func() {
                Expect(longBook.CategoryByLength()).To(Equal("NOVEL"))
            })
        })

        Context("With fewer than 300 pages", func() {
            It("should be a short story", func() {
                Expect(shortBook.CategoryByLength()).To(Equal("SHORT STORY"))
            })
        })
    })
})
````
Let’s break this down:

Ginkgo makes extensive use of closures to allow you to build descriptive test suites.
You should make use of Describe and Context containers to expressively organize the behavior of your code.
You can use BeforeEach to set up state for your specs. You use It to specify a single spec.
In order to share state between a BeforeEach and an It you use closure variables, typically defined at the top of the most relevant Describe or Context container.
We use Gomega’s Expect syntax to make expectations on the CategoryByLength() method.
Assuming a Book model with this behavior, running the tests will yield:

$ ginkgo # or go test
=== RUN TestBootstrap

Running Suite: Books Suite
==========================
Random Seed: 1378938274

Will run 2 of 2 specs

••
Ran 2 of 2 Specs in 0.000 seconds
SUCCESS! -- 2 Passed | 0 Failed | 0 Pending | 0 Skipped

--- PASS: TestBootstrap (0.00 seconds)
PASS
ok      books   0.025s
Success!


# Marking Specs as Failed

While you typically want to use a matcher library, like Gomega, to make assertions in your specs, Ginkgo provides a simple, global, Fail function that allows you to mark a spec as failed. Just call:

Fail("Failure reason")
and Ginkgo will take care of the rest.

Fail (and therefore Gomega, since it uses fail) will record a failure for the current space and panic. This allows Ginkgo to stop the current spec in its tracks - no subsequent assertions (or any code for that matter) will be called. Ordinarily Ginkgo will rescue this panic itself and move on to the next test.

However, if your test launches a goroutine that calls Fail (or, equivalently, invokes a failing Gomega assertion), there’s no way for Ginkgo to rescue the panic that Fail invokes. This will cause the test suite to panic and no subsequent tests will run. To get around this you must rescue the panic using GinkgoRecover. Here’s an example:

It("panics in a goroutine", func(done Done) {
    go func() {
        defer GinkgoRecover()

        Ω(doSomething()).Should(BeTrue())

        close(done)
    }()
})
Now, if doSomething() returns false, Gomega will call Fail which will panic but the deferred GinkgoRecover() will recover said panic and prevent the test suite from exploding.

More details about Fail and about using matcher libraries other than Gomega can be found in the Using Other Matcher Libraries section.